# Mobile-Development-and-Programming

Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
* The app I developed is an event tracker meant to help users manage their schedules. To meet user needs, my app was required to include two SQLite database tables: one of users and another of events. Each user should have been able to create an account or log in if they had one, and then view and manage their events. This includes adding, editing, and deleting events in the database. Each user required their own list of events that only they could access. My app needed to notify users of upcoming events, which would also require asking for permission.

What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
* To meet the user's needs, my app needed screens dedicated to logging in, viewing the events list, editing/creating events, and setting notification permission. The UI needed to be clear to users on how to interact with the app, and instructions must be provided where the UI does not speak for itself. To create a clear UI, I tried to consider how easy it would be to navigate for someone who had never used it before. I asked questions such as "Will the user know what this button does without instruction?" and "How can I help the user to know what to do?". I also drew a lot of inspiration from other mobile app designs; when the UIs across apps remain fairly consistent, it becomes easy for new users to pick up on how to interact with any app.

How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
* I managed my coding time with designated tasks and subtasks that would help me meet a requirenment. For example, getting the notifications to work meant asking for permission and setting up alarms, which were tasks that needed handling on their own. After each task, I would perform some tests to make sure I am ready to move on. Another strategy I used was that I would frequently double-check with the Android documentation to see if my code was following best practices. Plenty of the resources I found while working on this project were outdated and no longer conforming to the current best practices of development. Frequent check-ins with the documentation helped me to produce higher quality and more adaptable code. I hope to develop these techniques along with others I've picked up during my coursework to create a high quality coding strategy for future projects.

How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
* I usually tested my code by running it and interacting with it in different ways. I also utilized breakpoints and log statements to help me pinpoint the sources of problems. For example, I ran into an SQLite error while testing my new user database. It was very confusing because even database functions that worked fine previously were throwing errors. I used print statements to hone in on the problem and replaced variable references with constants to ensure the problem wasn't with them. I found the problematic line of code, which led me to discovering a formatting error in my SQLite code. This likely would have been a much more arduous process if I hadn't taken steps to find the source of the problem and simply tried solutions until one worked.

Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
* Throughout the app design and development process, I repeatedly encountered challenges that I needed to overcome. Often, it was because I didn't have a firm grasp of a topic, and the only solution was to continue seeking out examples and videos until I understood. It took me quite awhile to understand how the layout .xml files and Java classes interact with each other in an Android program, even though now it seems so simple and second-nature. Before taking this course, I had almost no experience with SQL or SQLite, and during my work on this project I needed to conduct several internet expeditions for context in structuring my definitions and queries. Another huge challenge was implementing notifications. I ended up with dozens of tabs open and hopping between resources while constructing my alarmsManager and alarmsReciever classes. Every one of these challenges was overwhelming at first; I had no clue where to start or how to modify what I saw online to meet my app's needs. When I encounter a challenge like this, the best things I can do are A. Take a break and B. Copy code examples so I can get an idea of how they work. Every time, I would start out very frustrated but come to understand the code after a rest and familiarizing myself with at least one example. No longer intimidated, I can then figure out how I want to apply what I've learned to my project, which is usually quite easy because I will have developed a lot of ideas by then.
  
In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
* Overall, I am very happy with how my app turned out. It is clearly unfinished, and I want to continue to develop it, but what I have accomplished so far has been some of my favorite work. One specific component that I think went especially well was the cells in the events list. It looks almost exactly as I had envisioned in that the text of each cell is nicely laid out and the background color is customizeable. I was initially worried that I wouldn't be able to implement custom backgrounds for the cells because I had no clue how I was going to do it when I started on the project, but it felt like something I needed to make work because it was a challenge. Overcoming this challenge would help me to prove that I had truly learned the techniques I was applying, because there wasn't a simple tutorial that would tell me what to do.
